---
keywords: fastai
title: Unit 3 Vocab
toc: true
badges: true
comments: true
permalink: /vocab3
nb_path: _notebooks/2022-12-09-Vocab3.ipynb
layout: notebook
---

<!--
#################################################
### THIS FILE WAS AUTOGENERATED! DO NOT EDIT! ###
#################################################
# file to edit: _notebooks/2022-12-09-Vocab3.ipynb
-->

<div class="container" id="notebook-container">
        
<div class="cell border-box-sizing text_cell rendered"><div class="inner_cell">
<div class="text_cell_render border-box-sizing rendered_html">
<h4 id="Unit-2&#8230;-Binary/Data-Terms">Unit 2&#8230; Binary/Data Terms<a class="anchor-link" href="#Unit-2&#8230;-Binary/Data-Terms"> </a></h4><ul>
<li>Bits, Bytes, Hexadecimal / Nibbles<ul>
<li>binary digit that is the smallest increment of data on a computer (ex. 0 and 1)</li>
<li>a byte is 8 bits </li>
<li>Hexadecimal is a base/positional number system used in mathematics and computer science (base 16 numbering system)</li>
<li>a nibble is 4 bits
<br></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>Binary Numbers: Unsigned Integer, Signed Integer, Floating Point<ul>
<li>a binary digit, or bit, is the smallest unit of data<ul>
<li>unsigned: integers that don't have a sign associated with them</li>
<li>signed: A signed integer is a 32-bit datum that encodes an integer in the range [-2147483648 to 2147483647]</li>
<li>Floating point: a positive or negative whole number with a decimal point
<br>      </li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>Binary Data Abstractions: Boolean, ASCII, Unicode, RGB<ul>
<li>Boolean: datatype that does true or false</li>
<li>ASCII: a character encoding scheme in which each character is represented by a 7-bit (originally) or 8-bit binary sequence</li>
<li>Unicode: 16-bit character set which describes all of the keyboard characters</li>
<li>RGB: a problem solving approach (algorithm) to find a satisfactory solution where finding an optimal or exact solution is impractical or impossible
<br></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>Data Compression: Lossy, Lossless (note discussed yet)<ul>
<li>data encoding and compression technique that deliberately discards some data in the compression process</li>
<li>data compression algorithm that allows the original data to be perfectly reconstructed from the compressed data
<br></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<h4 id="Unit-3&#8230;-Algorithm/Programming-Terms">Unit 3&#8230; Algorithm/Programming Terms<a class="anchor-link" href="#Unit-3&#8230;-Algorithm/Programming-Terms"> </a></h4><ul>
<li><p>Variables, Data Types, Assignment Operators</p>
<ul>
<li>Variables: a value that can change, depending on conditions or on information passed to the program</li>
<li>Data Types: <ul>
<li>String (or str or text) - combination of any characters</li>
<li>Character (or char) - single letters</li>
<li>Integer (or int) - whole numbers</li>
<li>Float (or Real) - numbers that contain decimal points, or for fractions.</li>
<li>Boolean (or bool) - data is restricted to True/False or yes/no options</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>Assignment Operators: operator used to assign a new value to a variable<ul>
<li>ex. =, +=, -=</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><p>Managing Complexity with Variables:  Lists, 2D Lists, Dictionaries, Class</p>
<ul>
<li>Lists: an abstract data type that represents a finite number of ordered values, where the same value may occur more than once.</li>
<li>2D lists: a two-dimensional array can hold more than one set of data</li>
<li>Dictionaries: an abstract data type that defines an unordered collection of data as a set of key-value pairs</li>
<li>Class: written in a defined structure to create an object.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><p>Algorithms, Sequence, Selection, Iteration</p>
<ul>
<li>Algorithms: a list set of instructions, used to solve problems or perform tasks.<ul>
<li>Sequence: algorithms do tasks in the order of specification.</li>
<li>Selection: helps choose two different outcomes based off a decision.</li>
<li>Iteration: if a condition is true, then the code can repeat.</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><p>Expressions, Comparison Operators, Booleans Expressions and Selection, Booleans - - - Expressions and Iteration, Truth Tables</p>
<ul>
<li>Expressions: combination of values and functions that are combined and interpreted to create a new value.<ul>
<li>x + y Addition</li>
<li>x - y Subtraction</li>
<li>x * y Multiplication</li>
<li>x / y Division</li>
<li>x // y Quotient</li>
<li>x % y Remainder</li>
<li>x ** y Exponentiation</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>Comparison Operators: compares two values against one another.<ul>
<li>a = b - equal to</li>
<li>a (not equal to symbol) b - not equal to</li>
<li>a &gt; b - greater than</li>
<li>a &lt; b - less than</li>
<li>a (is greater than or equal to symbol) b - greater than or equal to</li>
<li>a (is less than or equal to symbol) b - less than or equal to</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>Boolean Expressions: if a condition is true or false, there is a differnet outcome and if a condition is true, the code repeats an earlier step</li>
<li>Truth Table:<ul>
<li>have two values<ul>
<li>0 = off, false</li>
<li>1 = on, true</li>
<li>Examples<ul>
<li>0 and 0 = false. And operator means both needs to be true.</li>
<li>0 or 1 = true. Either or.</li>
<li>Use this in conditionals (selection)</li>
<li>XOR = exclusive or.</li>
<li>Or = similar to true or false. -
Ex: A is true, B is false</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><p>Characters, Strings, Length, Concatenation, Upper, Lower, Traversing Strings</p>
<ul>
<li>Characters: display unit of information equivalent to one alphabetic letter or symbol</li>
<li>Strings: ordered sequences of characters</li>
<li>Length: the number of symbols output.</li>
<li>Concatenation: String concatenation is combining 2 or more strings to make a new strings in order to create a new string<ul>
<li>concat() in pseudocode and varys from language to language can be used to combine to strings such as concat("cookie","monster") returns cookiemonster</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>Upper: used to check if the argument contains any uppercase characters<ul>
<li>returns "True" if all characters in the string are uppercase, Otherwise, It returns "False"</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>Lower: returns the lowercase string from the given string</li>
<li>Traversing Strings: the process of going through a String one character at a time, often using loops</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>Python If, Elif, Else conditionals; Nested Selection Statements<ul>
<li>If: statement executes a piece of code when one statement is false and the following statement is true</li>
<li>Elif: first if statement isn't true, but want to check for another condition</li>
<li>Else: executes if "if" isn't true</li>
<li>Nested Conditionals: when more than one decision must be made before the appropriate action can be taken</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>Python For, While loops with Range, with List<ul>
<li>For:</li>
<li>While:</li>
<li>While with range:</li>
<li>While with list:</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>Combining loops with conditionals to Break, Continue</li>
<li>Procedural Abstraction, Python Def procedures, Parameters, Return Values<ul>
<li>python def procedures</li>
<li>parameters</li>
<li>return values</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
 

